
		README for AD2C - convert resource files to C decls

		 George Ferguson, ferguson@cs.rochester.edu

			     12 Nov 1990
			Updated 19 Apr 1993

DESCRIPTION:

     Ad2c is a program which converts X resource files into C
     declarations appropriate for inclusion as fallback resources.
     The program is a sed script which is effectively a finite state
     machine, escaping quotes and backslashes (and newlines where
     necessary), and adding quotes and commas as needed for array
     initialization.

DISCLAIMER:

     This software is provided as is with no warranty expressed or implied.
     I hope you find it useful, but I won't be held responsable for
     any damage that may occur from reading, compiling, installing or
     using it.

     You are free to use any part of this code for other purposes. It
     would be nice if you could keep my name on some part of whatever the
     final product is.

INSTALLATION:

     1. Edit the Imakefile to change the installation directories if
	desired.

     2. Execute "xmkmf" to make the Makefile.

     3. Execute "make install" to install ad2c, and/or "make install.man"
	to install the man page. Making ad2c itself is unnecessary.

HISTORY:

     12 Nov 1990
	- Written and released to alt.sources.

     19 Mar 1991
	From: ferguson@cs.rochester.edu
		- Made it "self-contained" (ie. eliminated ad2c.sed)
		- Added Imakefile
	From: jerbil@ultra.com (Joseph Beckenbach)
		- Wrote man page.

     22 Jul 1991
	From: ferguson@cs.rochester.edu
		- Added USAGE section to man page and converted it to
		  use italic rather than bold font.

     Version 1.4: 6 Jan 1992
	From: tim@cs.wisc.edu (Tim Theisen)
		- Fixed example in man page.
	From: mycroft@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Charles Hannum)
		- Changes to work with Gnu and IBM sed, instead of relying
		  or quirky SunOS "-n" behaviour.

     Version 1.5: 7 Jan 1992
	From: matthew@sunpix.East.Sun.COM (Matthew Stier)
		- Escape quotes after escaping backslashes.

     Version 1.6: 8 Jul 1992
	From: davidw@vista.atmos.uiuc.edu (David Wojtowicz)
		- Semicolon after close-paren in example in manpage.

     Version 1.7: 19 Apr 1993
	From: ferguson@cs.rochester.edu
		- Remove comments inside sed command, and just put
		  them in the text.
